Introduction
============

The purpose of this document is to give an overview of the Texas Instruments TI
15.4-Stack Linux® software development kit (:term:`SDK`). This overview is
intended to help developers run the out-of-box example applications and create
custom TI 15.4-Stack applications that run on a Linux host and interface with a
CC13x0, CC13x2, or CC26x2 device, which runs the |TIMAC| CoProcessor firmware
for the end products.

TI 15.4-Stack implements the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
(IEEE™) standard 802.15.4e/g specification. TI 15.4-Stack also provides an
implementation of a frequency-hopping scheme derived from the Wi-SUN® field
area network (:term:`FAN`) specification. Additionally, the SDK provides
required tools, TI-RTOS, and example applications to help developers quickly
get started developing star-topology-based wireless network products.

Developers using TI 15.4-Stack have two architectural choices for product
development. The first option is to implement the entire TI 15.4-Stack
application on an embedded SimpleLink™ device. The second option is to
implement the application to run on a Linux host and interface to a SimpleLink™
ultra-low-power wireless :term:`MCU` running the TI 15.4-Stack CoProcessor
Application.

This document describes how to use the TI 15.4-Stack Linux SDK to develop
applications running on a Linux host interfacing through a serial interface
with the |TIMAC| CoProcessor running on SimpleLink™ CC13xx/CC26x2 device.

TI 15.4-Stack allows for rapid development of low-power and low-cost
communication networks with limited power and relaxed throughput requirements.
TI 15.4-Stack is primarily designed to create star-topology wireless networks.

For more details, refer to the IEEE 802.15.4g/e specification documents
available at `IEEE <http://www.ieee.org>`_.

SimpleLink™, LaunchPad, Sitara, SmartRF, Code Composer Studio, BoosterPack are
trademarks of Texas Instruments.

Arm is a registered trademark of Arm Ltd.

Ubuntu is a registered trademark of Canonical Limited.

Google is a registered trademark of Google Inc.

Node.js is a trademark of Joyent, Inc.

Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds.

IEEE is a trademark of The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
Inc.

Wi-SUN is a registered trademark of WI-SUN Alliance.

Zigbee is a registered trademark of Zigbee Alliance.

All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.